## September 13, 2021

Ben: list of  items for rest of project. Ben's talking points

* what to finish by the end of the project
* we have 400 hours left, enough for a couple of big chunks of work
* lots of minor enhancements to put in
* trying to comp as many hours to make something as satisfactory to both you and us

Noel: Was able to renegotiation with external evaluator to save roughly 50-70K that can be redirected to us! Part of the discussion.

## Now much is doable in the budget that's left?

> _Ben's source list is located [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10bCqokvOJEmypZOgFHVYVmzvcEbWNePtU4Aw2HaVQCk/edit?pli=1)_

### MUST HAVES REVIEW

* #115: **Script UI ** we have real scripts now, so moving on:
  * corey: reusable "script components" that students can copy them between projects (ben: a 2.0 thing, but it might not be doable with the specifics). Corey adds: the idea that a "chase" behavior, but that can be part of the "feature" things. In a week or two we can have a **deeper discussion** of the script UI.
  * joshua: we had half-talked and have a "code review" about the logic that would inform
* #119 #127 **import/export** project files is a big thing to make it easier to admin
* #325 **Character management** 
* **Documentation**

### NICE TO HAVES REVIEW

* [ ] **logins** #118 (probably not necessary, just need to know "who did what". For logfiles, need to only do two or three kids at a time, so we don't have the security issue; the external cameras can provide the backup. Can use the computer.
* [ ] **script event logging** (these are sim events, not user-generated script). Corey is thinking dbgOut might be using. Noel has a "learning analytics" need for logfiles. Corey clarifies: How to build a script, how they modified a script, how they used their bodies how to interact. How to reconstruct this. AI/Ed folks want to see different things than this research group.
* [x] **log file formats**: they want a regular "excel importable" test
* [x] #128 **video background**. Noel notes: multistitching didn't work well, want one webcam now. The video on project is much easier, but ipad isn't necessary. Corey notes the shape of the room/camera 
* [ ] **run on https** only for main. accessing controllers.
* [ ] **POZYX** smoothing algorithm with "Corey's algorithm" 
* [ ] #171 **VFX particles** sparkles (can wait)
* [ ] #274 text on/off (low priority) to hide
* [x] #281 rotations of agents anchor points
* [ ] more accurate sprite hitboxes (next grant)
* [x] #213 Speech Balloons (scratch and snap have programmed 'talk' function as a kind of indicator). 
* [x] #299 errors invalid keywords
* [ ] #217 Reporter Manager (Inspector) - the ability to see what's going on?
* [ ] #231 Mid-round Propety Editing..."in the middle of the round, change instances?) Corey said Noel wanted it. You've "hit a pause in the activity, so you want to update a property value before you start up again". This is a phase where you get to change the rounds starting property (related to #217)
* [ ] #249 HEX colors. Joshua thinks long term solution is a color picker. Noel wants some **perceptual color modifiers** that can work over time. Ben says we have HSV representation internally. (future thing)
* [ ] #123 Kid-editable art: Something similar to PLAE says Joshua. Be able to add a new character/costume and use a very basic drawing tool (next grant)
* [x] **Streamlined import art** that didn't require editing assets. They do want it but want to make it so **grad students can generate their own projects** as a separate issue.
* [ ] 

A general observation is **how do you show how the system is changing over time**. Corey adds: Also providing the ability to **override values in the simulation agent tables** is desirable. 

Joshua says that the more we can make it so people grads researchers can MAKE Stuff, the better! 

They are aiming for one more full script for their grant fulfillment. Salt. Bees. Joshua thinks would want to challenge themselves with what we already have at this point.

### SHOULD HAVES

* [x] open ptrack - utility
* [x] hybrid system multiverse - ptrack, pozyx, char-control

## Next Steps

See [Ben's Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10bCqokvOJEmypZOgFHVYVmzvcEbWNePtU4Aw2HaVQCk/edit?pli=1) for the **canonical list** of priorities and todos!





